Let's write a few programs on arrays.
I will take one array of size ten and I will store some numbers.
And this one are two, four, six, eight, 12, three, five, nine.
Now, the first program, I will find the sum of all these elements.
So for that I will declare one variable sum which is initialized to zero.
Now I have to iterate through all these elements one by one and every element I should add it to sum.
So one of the loop that will take me through all these elements as a for loop for is nine zero.
And I is less than and I is less than ten I plus plus.
So every time sum assign that sum plus a of I.
So this will be storing the element in sum.
So this will be adding an element with the sum and storing the result in sum.
So I don't have to give the brackets also because as a simple statement in a loop, then simply I will
right see out sum of all elements is sum and then let us run and see.
Yeah.
Sum of all elements is 67.
So if you add all these, you will get 67.
So that's it.
There's a program for finding the sum of all the elements in an array.
Now you have another loop that is called as for each loop.
So I'll just try this with that for each loop.
So index from a so here I will say X, so let's run and see.
I have just changed this with x, so x will be taking the values like two, then four, then six and
so on.
And every element is added to sum and the result is stored in sum.
Let us run the program and see.
Yeah.
Same 67 I got.
Now, here, you remember that?
And here, if you remember, instead of writing end, I can also write auto.
This X will automatically become of type integer because we are taking the elements from an array.
Let us run this and see.
It's not a syntax error.
It's running.
Perfectly and the answer is 67.
So I can use for a loop or even I can use for each loop for finding the sum.
Now let me modify the same program for finding the maximum of all these elements.
So the maximum element you can see that it's two l so I want to find out that maximum element.
So for that I should already have one variable max which should have the very smallest value of type
integer.
So there is a constant available that is int min.
So I should have a smallest number with my self.
And here inside this for loop I'll use brackets.
Now if.
X is greater than max c here I have taken our smallest integer inside max.
So if I get even a single value that is greater than minimum integer, that will be taken in max.
So what I do is if X is greater than Max, then I will store that X in the max.
So Max assign x.
That's it.
I wanted only one line under this F so even I can avoid this bracket.
So now let me display the results.
See out.
Maximum number is.
Max and Angel let us run the program.
I should get done, sir.
12.
Yes.
I got done so 12th.
Let me show you the reason why I'm taking in the men.
That is minimum of integers.
Some students think that.
Why can't we take just zero?
So I'll just take zero, and I will make all these numbers as negative.
Now tell me.
Now, check here, which is the largest number.
So the largest number is minus two.
All numbers are less than minus two.
But here I have taken the initial value as zero.
Let us run and see what answer I'll get.
See, the answer is zero because the maximum number was we have taken it as zero and that zero remains
as it is.
None of these numbers are greater than max.
So this condition never met.
So the value of max is never change.
So if you want to consider positive numbers as well as negative numbers, then go for minimum integer
value.
INT min is a built in constant in C++.
So you can use this for getting the minimum integer number that is -21, 47, 48, 36 and 48.
That's it.
So now let me change quickly the program for finding the minimum of all these numbers so you can see
that the minimum for all these numbers is minus two.
L So I want that one.
So I'll change the variable name to min and wherever it appears I'll just change it to min.
Now what is the other change I have to do after making this l as min this condition I have to change.
If x is less than min then change min to x and here instead of minimum integer, I should take it as
a max integer.
Let us run and see.
I should get the answer as minus two L because that is the smallest element in the list.
Yes.
Minus two or less.
Dancer So this the smallest element that is there in the array if I remove negative numbers and make
them as positive.
Now one of the number, I'll make it as minus three.
So I should get the answer as minus three.
Let us run this.
Yes.
The minimum number in an area is three.
So that's it.
These are the programs for finding the maximum of the list of elements in an and minimum of all the
elements in an array.
And also we have seen how to find some novel, modify this program for searching an element in a hurry
that is list.
So I'll use a linear search.
So I'll remove all these things, let the array be as it is.
Then I have to search for a key element.
So I will take one more variable key, then I will ask our input.
That is enter.
A key to search allows the user from the keyboard.
I will take the input, the key value.
Now I will search for this key value inside this array so I can use for loop.
I can use for each loop, any one thing I can use and even I can use a VI loop so I will use for loop
here integer i assign zero is less than.
No.
Now here I can use for loop or for each loop, but actually I want the index.
Suppose I'm searching for 12 then 12.
Is that index 012, three, four.
So results index four.
So I want the index of that element.
So I cannot use for each loop.
For each loop doesn't work based on indices.
So I have to use for loop here integer I assign zero.
And I is less than ten.
I plus plus every time I have to check whether that key element is equal to the element in an array
at the present index.
I if so then I will say see out element found add.
I want the index.
Right.
So I will say a it is found at index.
I then this I will give it in brackets.
Now once it is found that index I then what I should do, I should stop the program.
So I will say just exit zero.
So this will terminate my program.
I should not continue for that at all.
If I have came out of the for loop means the element is not found.
And here I can say element or say key element.
Element not found.
So if I have finished the loop, then it means the element is not found.
Otherwise the limit is there in an array.
It is found here and I can display the index here.
I am displaying an index.
Then it will exit.
Let us run and see.
Oh, typing mistake in enter.
Enter a key for search.
So I'll give the search here to L so you can see that the index I got is for I'll run once again.
Here.
I'll give and tell when it is found.
I'll give it as end.
L So I get a space and I'll.
Enter the search key values.
I will give the c key value as 11.
So it is found at index nine.
I'll run once again now.
I'll give the element as a 31.
So the key element not found.
So it has checked everything and it has came out.
That's it.
You can try this program by yourself and also try to debug the program and see how it is working.